---
layout: post
title: No Dates!
tags: [jekyll, gitlab, date-time]
excerpt: In designing this blog, I decided against prominently displaying dates. Read on to see why I made this decision.
---

I decided to try out the [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) static site generator for this blog; [GitLab](http://pages.github.com/) will host the site for you, and all you have to is push Markdown-formatted files to a special repository (provided you don't want to use third-party Jekyll plug-ins). When looking through a few sample sites and tutorials, I noticed that all blogs prominently show a date with their posts.
 
Dating posts may have been useful when diaries were used to keep track of important life-events, but serve no use for technical blogs on the web.
 
## Dates Provide Little Context
 
Software generally does not use dates to differentiate between API or feature set. Instead, it relies on something that can relay much more contextual information, a version number. Provided the right approach to versioning is used, you can tell if a release contains mayor features or just bug fixes.

One thing you can learn from dates with posts is how active the writer is. However, with todays integration of social media, figuring out whether a writer contributes frequently should be easy. Especially when using GitHub pages, the date at which a post was written is pointless if the author can go in and update the post so easily. Unfortunately, Jekyll does not seem to provide a last-edited variable for posts, although you can add your own.

## Dates are Complex
 
There are [many different calendars](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_calendars). Which one should you use? Do you display the full names of months, or just their numerical identifier? Anyone who has ever had code a scheduling system knows that dates are hard to code for. Word has it that Java 8 will finally provide a decent [Date-Time](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/datetime/) API.

## The Quest for Perfection

In the end, it came down my desire to remove features until the essence remains. I didn't think dates added anything, so they had to go. I had to make a few changes to the Jekyll configuration to excludes dates from permalinks:

~~~
permalink: /:categories/:title.html
~~~

Posts still require a date in the file name, but at least these are not front-facing.
 
 

